======================================
401.4 Untangling Legacy Access Polcies
======================================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Learn to recognize tangled access control policies.
* Use techniques to untangle co-mingled policies and cohorts.

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper
* OpenLDAP
* `Grouper Deployment Guide`_


--------
Overview
--------

A baseline of core services services are enabled by default for a broad range
of community cohorts. The current approach uses a hodge-podge of scripts and
manual intervention to establish a group of "community members" that are
granted access to a wide range of services. The system can best be described
as fragile, brittle, and difficult, if not impossible, to evolve and maintain.
In other words-- state-of-the-industry!

Last year your CIO came back from Internet2 Summit, and declared that your
institution was going to deploy the InCommon Trusted Access Platform. You have
just managed to get Grouper up and running, when the head of your Learning
Management System group, Vicky, bursts into your office and tells you that
there are 50 visiting scholars showing up on campus tomorrow, and they all need
access to the LMS for a campus-wide lecture series.

Your co-worker had mentioned this to you before she left for her month long
vacation. She had told you she had taken care of creating the sponsored
accounts in `COmanage`_, and not to worry. You just need to grant access to the
LMS when the time comes. No problem.

But suddenly, you realize that access to the LMS is controlled via the dreaded
"community members" group in your Enterprise LDAP! If you add the scholars
to that group, they'll have access to everything on campus!

Before panic sets in, you remember your Grouper training. You will need a
little help from Vicky, but with Grouper, you've got this covered. "OK,
Vicky," you say in a calm, steady voice. "Here's what I'm going to need your
team to do ..."

--------------------------------------------------------
Exercise 401.4.1 Untangling policies from legacy cohorts
--------------------------------------------------------

The goal of this exercise is to grant access to the LMS for the 50 visiting
scholar sponsored accounts *without* granting any additional unnecessary
access. Since access control does not happen in a vacuum, you'll need some
minimal assistance from the LMS team. Vicky's team can configure the LMS to
point to a new authorization group in LDAP, but that's all the help you'll get.

The basic issue is that the legacy access control mechanisms are based on a
cohort of loosely defined "institutional people". All your institution's
services are using this cohort directly to determine who is supposed to have
access, so any changes or additions have far reaching impact.

The dreaded "community members" group that the LMS currenty uses for access
control is in LDAP at "cn=community_members,ou=groups,dc=internet2,dc=edu". You
can log in to https://localhost:8443/phpldapadmin/ to review the group.

Here are the 50 visiting scholar NetIDs:

.. code-block::

    adoe852
    agonazles804
    alopez751
    alopez802
    anielson378
    anielson51
    athompson526
    athompson713
    athompson866
    awalters247
    awhite131
    awhite631
    bdavis150
    bdavis999
    bgasper2
    bgonazles239
    bgrady115
    blee298
    cjohnson933
    clangenberg923
    clee357
    cthompson231
    cthompson287
    cwalters316
    cwalters536
    cwilliams606
    danderson959
    dbrown402
    ddavis762
    ddoe822
    dwhite663
    dwilliams299
    eanderson919
    escott173
    gbutler381
    ggrady118
    ggrady649
    glangenberg234
    gwalters810
    gwhite647
    hpeterson10
    jgrady499
    jlee308
    jnielson505
    jsmith466
    jvales111
    jvales645
    jwalters24
    kdavis686
    kjohnson872

You will need to use your new Grouper skills to resolve this issue. Your next
step is up to you!

If you get stuck or bored, check out the `401.4 example solution`_!

.. _Grouper Deployment Guide: https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/Grouper/Grouper+Deployment+Guide+Work+-TIER+Program
.. _COmanage: https://www.internet2.edu/products-services/trust-identity/comanage/
.. _401.4 example solution: 401.4-example-solution.html
